So you'll remember from the introductory chapter that we saw how to
set the CLASSPATH when running a Java application,
and we saw how the CLASSPATH affected how the application ran,
and we have the same code here.
So here if I go java ‑cp to set the CLASSPATH and say classes
lib\helper.jar and then run com.pluralsight.Main,
then the code should work in exactly the same way.
We see Hello from helper.
And if you'll remember,
what is happening here is that Java is looking in the classes
directory and in the Helper.jar file to look for both the
com.pluralsight.Main class and, in this case,
the com.mantiso.helper class that's used by Main.
We also know that if the Helper.jar file doesn't exist,
then this code won't run.
So if I rename Helper.jar to something else, so I say something
like move lib\helper.jar to lib\foo.jar and then rerun the
application, then the application won't load.
So in this case,
we get our famous java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError. It
was looking for com.mantiso.helper.
And that's because Helper.jar isn't on the CLASSPATH.
So as well as the CLASSPATH,
there are two other locations that Java loads its
classes from. If we look at my computer,
you'll see that I have Java installed inside the Program Files directory.
So I have Program Files, Java, jre1.8 build 25 at this point, and
there's a lib folder. And inside the lib folder, we have rt.jar.
And this rt.jar, this is the Java runtime .jar that contains the
base class library if you like.
These are the base classes that Java uses.
So if I name this to rt.zip and then look inside this file, we'll
see that inside here we have things like java.lang. And then if I
do a search, we'll find we have, for example,
the string class.
So this library contains the core Java classes, and many of the classes that
we use inside our application will be loaded from here.
So this is, if you like, the first port of call for any application that wants
to load Java classes. So let me rename that back to jar.
You'll also notice that inside my lib directory here, I have
this other directory called ext. Inside the ext directory, this
is the Java extensions directory, are also a set of JAR files. And in here,
for example,
we have things like the Java cryptography extensions. So
these are Java classes that are used by many,
many applications, but aren't part of the core libraries in Java.
They're not part of rt.jar, but we'd like to ship them along with
every other application that we're going to use. Any class, any JAR
file inside the extensions directory, will be used or can be used
by our application.
So, for example, if I take my helper.jar class,
so here's my helper.jar class, and we know that this currently works. If
I do com.pluralsight.Main, then the application runs.
If I go and find that JAR far and delete it and place it,
for example,
inside a temporary folder here, so we can see that's now
gone from the lib folder, and try and run the application
again, the application now fails.
If I now take that same JAR file from the temporary folder and move it to
the jre extension folder, so this is now part of the extension classes,
and go back to my command prompt and try and run the application, then
the application now works again.
And what's happening now is that com.pluralsight.Main is being found in
the classes folder. Lib\helper.jar doesn't exist. And instead, it's
finding helper.jar inside the extensions folder.
Just one more test.
If we go back to our command line and delete lib\helper.jar
completely, so we're just using classes, then again the code still
works as we'd expect. There are also a couple of things to note
here about the extensions directory.
It's also used by the javac compiler.
We have to remember in this case that there are two extensions
directories possibly, one used by the Java runtime environment and
one used by the Java SDK, and these could be in different places.
The appropriate one we picked up,
depending on which copy of Java you use, that's where the
extensions directory will be found.
So for my Java runtime environment, the extensions directory was in Program
Files, Java, jre1.8.0_25, lib, ext. For my JDK, I'm running it from my home
kevinjdev Java folder. And inside there, that has a jre folder that contains
a lib that contains an extension. And in here, I've placed helper.jar. So
from my command prompt,
I can run javac ‑sourcepath src
src\com\pluralsight\Main.java. That will compile Main.java
using the helper.jar file from the extensions directory.
If that JAR file didn't exist, then my Main.java would not compile.
The other thing to know about the extensions directory is that you can also set
it explicitly. So we can run Java, again setting the CLASSPATH to classes, but
now setting the extensions directory to c:\lib.
This could be any location.
And again, if we try and run this code, the code fails.
If I take my helper.jar and place it in this lib folder and go back to
the command prompt and run the command again, then the application
works again. So it allows us to set the extensions directory wherever we want to as part of running Java.